# nornir-project/nornir-project/README.md

# Nornir Project

This project is built using Nornir, a Python automation framework that allows for the management and automation of network devices.

## Project Structure

```
nornir-project
├── inventory
│   ├── groups.yaml
│   ├── hosts.yaml
│   └── defaults.yaml
├── config.yaml
├── nornir.log
├── requirements.txt
├── tasks
│   └── tasks.py
└── README.md
```

## Files Description

- **inventory/groups.yaml**: Defines groups of devices in the inventory, specifying common attributes and configurations for each group.
- **inventory/hosts.yaml**: Lists individual devices in the inventory, detailing their specific attributes and connection information.
- **inventory/defaults.yaml**: Contains default values for the inventory, which can be overridden by specific host or group attributes.
- **config.yaml**: The main configuration file for Nornir, specifying settings such as logging, inventory sources, and plugins.
- **nornir.log**: Used for logging purposes, capturing runtime information and errors generated by the Nornir framework.
- **requirements.txt**: Lists the Python dependencies required for the project, which can be installed using pip.
- **tasks/main.py**: Contains the main task logic for the Nornir project, where tasks are defined and executed against the inventory.

## Setup Instructions

1. `git clone https://github.com/DeanTognolini/nornir-docker`
2. `cd nornir-docker`
3. `docker build -t nornir-project .`
4. Configure the inventory files as needed.
5. Run the tasks defined in `tasks/main.py` to automate your network devices.

## Usage Examples

```bash
cd nornir-project
python tasks/task.py
```
